# Pig Value Iteration Replication Study

This repository attempts to replicate the results of the paper:

> Neller, T. W., & Presser, C. G. (2004). Optimal play of the dice game pig. *The UMAP Journal*, 25(1).

This paper uses value iteration to find the optimal policy for the games Piglet and Pig. 

A report can be found in `report.ipynb` which details the replication study and presents our results.

## Installation

This repository can be installed using `git clone`.
To clone the repository and install it locally, run the following commands in terminal:

```
git clone https://github.com/fwilson99/609_Pig_Game.git
cd 609_Pig_Game
pip install -e .
```

## Requirements

The core installation includes all necessary dependencies for running the package. 

## Files

The files included in this repository have various functions:
- The core replication of the Piglet results is in `piglet_manual.py`, and similarly the core replication of the Pig results are found in `pig_manual.py`.
- The `pig_game.py` code provides classes for creating a Pig player and running a Pig game. These classes are used in the competition code where the 'hold-at-20' player competes against the optimal policy in Pig.
- The `optimal_policy.py` code is a module for extracting the optimal Pig policy from a value function.
- A utilities file, `utilities.py` provides helper functions for storing and loading data generated by the Pig and Piglet games to prevent rerunning code numerous times. Additionally, helper functions for the Pig competition code ('hold-at-20' strategy vs. optimal play) are stored in this file.
- The file `reachable.py` calculates the reachablity of all the states under the optimal policy for the game Pig and stores the results to prevent rerunning code numerous times. 
- Lastly, the `report.ipynb` is a notebook presenting the results of the replication study. The notebook needs to be run to view the graphical results.
